Trevor Haba
CS-112, Programming Video Games

3D!! Game Proposals

1.	Racing Game: I know that it was said that racing games can get tricky, but I am very intrigued by this idea. My goal would probably be to make something similar to HydroThunder, where the player pilots a wave-runner sort of thing through a water course. There may (or may not be) weapons, speed power ups, boosts and jumps. I would really like to include nice particle effects to simulate spray from the water and such.
The good thing about this project is that it is easily scalable. At first the goal would be to get a very simple level, where the player controls a craft through a mostly straight course. Then the group could work on any number of improvements: more complex courses, perhaps with rocks or other obstacles within the main track. Enemy boats, with or without AI. Weapons and power ups, etc. Once the most basic part of the game is working, we could continue building the extras and still have a “finished” and playable game no matter how far along we get.

2.	3D Platformer: This game would be a twist on the typically “Mario” platform jumping game. The goal would be to get from the top of this gigantic tower to the ground without falling off. This would be a fast paced game where the player has a constant velocity moving forward and has to try and control their character to land on the various platforms, rings and other such things to navigate to the bottom of the tower. This game is very open ended because the tower can have any sort of mechanic we can imagine and program in: reverse gravity sections, spikes or obstacles that the player wants to avoid, water sections etc… 

3.	Platerformer Duel: This game would be played on a fairly simply map. There would be a bunch of platforms of largely varying size, with space in between to fall. There would also be plenty of walls, so this would be something like a cross between a maze and a platformer.  There would be a variety of weapons (hopefully). This would be a first person shooter, which would be awesome if we could get it to network between two computers so people could play against each other, but that would probably be way too hard. Instead, the point of this game would be to create as mean an AI as possible, that the player could duel against. 
It might be cool to have the AI only have melee and move slightly faster than the player, but be slowed and damage when they get shot. So the player would have to balance between running away and navigating the treacherous area, and shooting and slowing the monster chasing them. Or we could try having the monster able to use weapons. It would be awesome to make a complex map for this, with many levels that you could drop down or jump up from, so we could implement a stalker / horror feel. The monster would hunt the player and try to use the area around it to ambush.
